---
layout: note
title: MySQL
date: 2015-02-18 09:24:15 -0700
categories: Database
---

# Databases

# Chapter 4

## Normalization

Normalization is the removal of redundant data through organizing data by dividing a database
into two or more tables and then defining table relationships. This is done to isolate data so additions,
deletions, and modifications are made in one table and then propagated out from there.

There are five normalization forms (NFs)
1. First Normalization form (1NF): Eliminate repeating groups
2. Second normalization from (2NF): Eliminate redundant data
3. Third normalization data (3NF): Eliminate columns not dependent on key
4. Fourth normalization form (4NF): Isolate independent multiple relationships
5. Fifth normalization form (5NF): Isolate semantically related multiple relationships

### First normal form

The first normalized form means the following three conditions are met:

- No duplicate records in table. (ID field)
- No multivalued attributes. Cannot combine in a single column multiple values
that are considered valid for the column.
- The entries in the column or attribute must be the same data type

###  Second normal form

Ensures that each attribute does in fact describe the entity. The attributes of the entity
must be functionally dependent on the entire primary key.

Look at page 64 in MTA study guide for examples of 2NF tables

### Third normal form

Checks for transitive dependencies. A dependency is __transient__ when attribute1 is dependent on attribute2,
which is then dependent on the primary key. Every attribute must provide a fact about the key, the whole key, and nothing
but the key.

Requirements of third normal form:

1. The database must already meet the requirements for 1NF and 2NF.
2. The database mmust not contain any columns that aren't fully dependent upon the primary key

### Fourth normal form

Two independent attributes brought together to form a primary key along with a third attribute. But,
if the two attributes don't uniquely identify the entity without the third attribute, it violates 4NF.

### Fifth normal form

Provides the method for designing complex relationships involving multiple entities.
This is not often implemented and is fairly complicated.

## Other terms

__Composite primary key__: define when more than one column defined as the primary key
